
# Machine learning driven approach to a comprehensive career path

### Prepared by - 
- Shalini Mishra – 20BCE0763
- Pranav Bidve – 20BCE0268
- MD Tiham Hossain – 20BCE0753
- Annanya Mangla – 20BCE0700

### Problem statement

####
In the research paper, "A machine learning approach for future career planning", The user had to give their current qualifications and the job they are aspiring. After assessing these details, the machine learning model will provide a path which they need to follow, to reach 
their job. To make this decision easier and timesaving for the user, we can make certain additions like. The current ranking of universities for a particular degree, the number of scholarships they would provide, their admission deadlines and criteria. This would make the website a one stop destination for someone who would want to pursue any career. An improvisation to the current paper is that we can provide the user with a set of alumni/employee email ids. This will not only help the user to connect with them but will also be able to make a prudent decision as to select a particular course, job or even a career 
field.

### Novel features

- Ranking of universities provided in each career path.
- Scholarships provided by each of the universities.
- Admission deadlines of universities.
- Admission requirements for certain colleges.
- Suggestions from Alumni and current employees.

#### Project workflow

 | Task | Task description | Timeline | Contribution |
 | --- | --- | --- | --- |
 | Data collection | We aim to collect data from myriad sources like educational institutions, known universities, offices, workplaces and startups. We do this by mailing people working or studying. We will also be contacting the institution or the HR department of a company | Week 0-2 | MD Tiham Hossain |
 
 | Sorting of data  | The data that we aggregate
from various resources
needs to be sorted based
on multiple factors, like the
degree that needs to be
completed before, or is a
prerequisite for the other.
Also the data of the
universities also needs to
be sorted, based on
ranking, scholarships and
other features.
This sorting of data can be
done by making use of
various algorithms like
quick sort or merge sort,
depending on which one is
more efficient and time
saving on our data. | Week 2 | MD Tiham Hossain |



### Challenges faced

####
Challenges faced for our project model is procuring and sorting of the erratic data generated by universities and companies. The ever-changing details of each university should be kept abreast. The elicitation of student or employee email ids from the respective sources like institutions, workplaces, and universities can be a conundrum. It would require making a good connection 
with sources.




